README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img width="100%" src="https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=10y3NKbbk7yt7cZDMszMt04g6NquTEa4p" alt="Carbon Logo" />
</p>

# Carbon Simulator for Binder

_requires Carbon Version v2.2_

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/carbon-simulator.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/carbon-simulator)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Binder](https://img.shields.io/badge/binder-main-blue)][binderlab]
[![Binder](https://img.shields.io/badge/binder-beta-blue)][binderlabbeta]
[![Binder](https://img.shields.io/badge/binder-frozen-blue)][binderlabfrozen]



This is the [Binder][binder] repo for the [Carbon simulator][repo]. The permament github URL for this repo is [bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder][repob]. Please refer to the simulator repo at [bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator][repo] and the Carbon project website [carbondefi.xyz][carbon] for more information. On the site you will find in particular the [litepaper][litepaper], [whitepaper][whitepaper] and the [patent application][patent]. 

## Repo Structure

This repo contains a collection of Jupyter notebooks related to the Carbon Simulator. Whilst most notebooks should be working, there may be two issues aring: firstly, some notebooks may be very old and may not have been updated to use the latest version of Carbon and there are breaking changes. Secondly, the notebook may be too new and rely on Carbon code that is currently in the beta branch, and when run on Binder it is only possibly to run the code that is currently in the main branch.

The notebooks are arranged according to the following categories

- `CarbonExamples`: the example workbooks from the root directory of the Carbon repo
- `CarbonDemo`: the demo workbooks from `resources/demo` of the Carbon repo
- `CarbonNBTest`: the test workbooks from `resources/nbtest` of the Carbon repo
- `Examples`: other examples not present in the Carbon repo
- `Frozen`: the notebooks in the dated folders will usually not be updated; in 
conjunction with a frozen branch this avoids having to rebuild the binder too
often, in particular just ahead of an event

## Quickstart

**Either** use the [![Binder](https://img.shields.io/badge/binder-main-blue)][binderlab] button above to launch the generic repo and navigate to the workbook you want from within the user environment,

**or** go to the file directly using the url

    https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main?labpath=PATH/BOOK.ipynb

where you should replace `PATH` and `BOOK` in

    ...?labpath=PATH/BOOK.ipynb

with the desired _path_ and _notebook name_.

A couple of example URLs you can follow are below:

- [...?labpath=CarbonSim-LitepaperExamples.ipynb](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main?labpath=CarbonSim-LitepaperExamples.ipynb)
- [...?labpath=Examples/202301_ExpandingRanges.ipynb](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main?labpath=Examples/202301_ExpandingRanges.ipynb)
- [...?labpath=CarbonDemo/CarbonSim-Demo-1-1.ipynb](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main?labpath=CarbonDemo/CarbonSim-Demo-1-1.ipynb)


## Usage

This repo is mostly designed to be used with [Binder][binder], a web-based service for hosting Jupyter notebooks and labs. If you want to run the simulator locally, we recommend cloning the [main repo][repo] instead, and following the installation instructions there. This gives you access to not only the stable `main` branch of the simulator that is available in [PyPi][pypi], but also to the full source code and the `beta` branch that contains the latest code.

To launch this repo on binder, you can use the badge above to launch the lab. You can also

- go to the [lab environment here][binderlab], or 
- to the [litepaper example sheet here][binderlab_lpex].



Note that the launch process can be slow at times: if the repo has been recently changed and you are the first one use it then the docker images may have to be built. Even if the docker images are available, it may take a moment to transfer the required images to the [federation server][binderfed]

[binderlab]:https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main
[binderlabbeta]:https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/beta
[binderlabfrozen]:https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/frozen_yyyymmdd
[binderlab_lpex]:https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main?labpath=CarbonSim-LitepaperExamples.ipynb


## Local usage 

If you nevertheless want to run this repo locally, you can do so by running

````{tab} PyPI
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
````

which in particular will install the carbon simulator from [PyPi][pypi]

````{tab} PyPI
$ pip install carbon-simulator
````

We recommend using a [virtual environment][venv] to ensure that there are no conflicts with other local installations.


[carbon]:https://carbondefi.xyz
[litepaper]:https://carbondefi.xyz/litepaper
[whitepaper]:https://carbondefi.xyz/whitepaper
[patent]:https://carbondefi.xyz/patent
[repo]:https://github.com/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator/
[repob]:https://github.com/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/
[pypi]:https://pypi.org/project/carbon-simulator/
[venv]:https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html
[binder]:https://mybinder.org/
[binderfed]:https://mybinder.readthedocs.io/en/latest/about/federation.html

Commit message:

Renamed TOC to FROZEN; README; gitignore

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img width="100%" src="https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=10y3NKbbk7yt7cZDMszMt04g6NquTEa4p" alt="Carbon Logo" />
</p>

# Carbon Simulator for Binder

_see [`FROZEN.md`][frozenmd] for a table of frozen Binder releases_

[frozenmd]:https://github.com/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/blob/main/FROZEN.md
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/carbon-simulator.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/carbon-simulator)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Binder](https://img.shields.io/badge/binder-main-blue)][binderlab]



This is the [Binder][binder] repo for the [Carbon simulator][repo]. The permament github URL for this repo is [bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder][repob]. Please refer to the simulator repo at [bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator][repo] and the Carbon project website [carbondefi.xyz][carbon] for more information. On the site you will find in particular the [litepaper][litepaper], [whitepaper][whitepaper] and the [patent application][patent]. 

## Repo Structure

This repo contains a collection of Jupyter notebooks related to the Carbon Simulator. Whilst most notebooks should be working, there may be two issues aring: firstly, some notebooks may be very old and may not have been updated to use the latest version of Carbon and there are breaking changes. Secondly, the notebook may be too new and rely on Carbon code that is currently in the beta branch, and when run on Binder it is only possibly to run the code that is currently in the main branch.

The notebooks are arranged according to the following categories

- `CarbonExamples`: the example workbooks from the root directory of the Carbon repo
- `CarbonDemo`: the demo workbooks from `resources/demo` of the Carbon repo
- `CarbonNBTest`: the test workbooks from `resources/nbtest` of the Carbon repo
- `Examples`: other examples not present in the Carbon repo
- `Frozen`: the notebooks in the dated folders will usually not be updated; in 
conjunction with a frozen branch this avoids having to rebuild the binder too
often, in particular just ahead of an event

## Quickstart

**Either** use the [![Binder](https://img.shields.io/badge/binder-main-blue)][binderlab] button above to launch the generic repo and navigate to the workbook you want from within the user environment,

**or** go to the file directly using the url

    https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main?labpath=PATH/BOOK.ipynb

where you should replace `PATH` and `BOOK` in

    ...?labpath=PATH/BOOK.ipynb

with the desired _path_ and _notebook name_.

A couple of example URLs you can follow are below:

- [...?labpath=CarbonSim-LitepaperExamples.ipynb](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main?labpath=CarbonSim-LitepaperExamples.ipynb)
- [...?labpath=Examples/202301_ExpandingRanges.ipynb](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main?labpath=Examples/202301_ExpandingRanges.ipynb)
- [...?labpath=CarbonDemo/CarbonSim-Demo-1-1.ipynb](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main?labpath=CarbonDemo/CarbonSim-Demo-1-1.ipynb)


## Usage

This repo is mostly designed to be used with [Binder][binder], a web-based service for hosting Jupyter notebooks and labs. If you want to run the simulator locally, we recommend cloning the [main repo][repo] instead, and following the installation instructions there. This gives you access to not only the stable `main` branch of the simulator that is available in [PyPi][pypi], but also to the full source code and the `beta` branch that contains the latest code.

To launch this repo on binder, you can use the badge above to launch the lab. You can also

- go to the [lab environment here][binderlab], or 
- to the [litepaper example sheet here][binderlab_lpex].



Note that the launch process can be slow at times: if the repo has been recently changed and you are the first one use it then the docker images may have to be built. Even if the docker images are available, it may take a moment to transfer the required images to the [federation server][binderfed]

[binderlab]:https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main
[binderlabbeta]:https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/beta
[binderlabfrozen]:https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/frozen_yyyymmdd
[binderlab_lpex]:https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/main?labpath=CarbonSim-LitepaperExamples.ipynb


## Local usage 

If you nevertheless want to run this repo locally, you can do so by running

````{tab} PyPI
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
````

which in particular will install the carbon simulator from [PyPi][pypi]

````{tab} PyPI
$ pip install carbon-simulator
````

We recommend using a [virtual environment][venv] to ensure that there are no conflicts with other local installations.


[carbon]:https://carbondefi.xyz
[litepaper]:https://carbondefi.xyz/litepaper
[whitepaper]:https://carbondefi.xyz/whitepaper
[patent]:https://carbondefi.xyz/patent
[repo]:https://github.com/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator/
[repob]:https://github.com/bancorprotocol/carbon-simulator-binder/
[pypi]:https://pypi.org/project/carbon-simulator/
[venv]:https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html
[binder]:https://mybinder.org/
[binderfed]:https://mybinder.readthedocs.io/en/latest/about/federation.html
